# A compendium of Marcus' altered effects
## The Judgements
At a high level, when something feels either very smart or very stupid that assignment of Smart/True or Dumb/False is a Judgement. If we view people as being on different mental levels, then a statement is Smart/True if it comes from a place of understanding how the world works at a deeper level than I consider common. Alternatively, a statement is Dumb/False if it comes from a place of understanding how the world works at a more superficial level than I consider common. For example, initially I wanted to separate the feeling of love from all the rest of the connotations of a romantic relationship like wanting to know the person deeply and share emotional intimacy and stuff like that in addition to wanting comfort and physical closeness from them. However, I later learned that the other stuff does usually come later, meaning that the decision to combine all those meanings into the concept of "romantic relationship" is actually Smart. Alternatively, listening to someone talking about their struggles and consistently blaming their environment without taking responsibility will probably be seen as Dumb because it makes me believe that at a deep level their worldview is not equipped to help them.

## Thought Acceleration
All of the following effects seem to be a consequence of [thought acceleration](https://psychonautwiki.org/wiki/Thought_acceleration). This feels like being in a small boat in stormy waters, where there is this constant psychic pressure to quickly explore the dialogue tree and dive deep into the consequences of thoughts. This, perhaps paradoxically, results in [focus suppression](https://psychonautwiki.org/wiki/Focus_suppression). Because my mind moves so quickly, this can result in [partial short-term memory suppression](https://psychonautwiki.org/wiki/Memory_suppression).

## The Cycles
Other people call these [Thought Loops](https://psychonautwiki.org/wiki/Thought_loop). Suppose that I'm feeling hungry and so I think "I should go make some food." Then, while imagining the task of going to the kitchen and making food, I realize "Oh wait, there's this appliance I'm missing in the kitchen that I'll need to research and buy. I remember thinking about this a long time ago but it slipped my mind, so I should at least write down that I should get it so it doesn't get forgotten. Ok, I should go find my phone to write it down." Then, after a bit of time unsuccessfully searching for my phone, I briefly check in on my body and realize that I'm feeling hungry, so I think "I should go make some food." Then, while imagining the task of going to the kitchen and making food, I realize "Oh wait, there's this appliance I'm missing in the kitchen and oh wait I've thought about this before, I need to write it down." And thus the cycle continues. In that case, there were three real important thoughts in the cycle, but unfortunately none of them were able to be executed on.

## The Threads
Suppose I'm outside and there's someplace I need to walk to. I start walking that direction, sometimes nontrivially going up and down stairs or avoiding obstacles. While I'm walking, my mind is off thinking about whatever else, sometimes cyclically and sometimes not. Eventually, I complete the task and get to my destination, at which point I have this sudden jolt of "oh wait I'm here," having lost the plot of why I needed to go there and being astonished that despite being completely preoccupied with something else the task got completed. I then quickly remember why I needed to walk there and start the next task, perhaps falling back into thought. The reason behind the naming is that there's this thread in my head which basically operates my body to accomplish my task, independent from my mind. Then, when the task completes the thread returns and takes over the main process, maybe initiating another task and starting a new thread or maybe just being there to stay if I need to talk with people or something. When the thread returns, it feels like an entity that was initally high up has fallen onto the tracks of my train of thought, in a process called "landing." Of course this means that when a thread starts it "lifts," but I've only ever been conscious of a thread landing due to their nature. This is a consequence of thought acceleration paired with advanced capabilities to complete tasks on auto-pilot.

## The Derails
Suppose I'm trying to get out a long description of some topic. In order to accomplish this, I have to switch back and forth between letting my brain focus on what to say, and in transcribing the words my brain came up with. However, I visualize the sentence faster than I can type it out, which means I have to trade off between understanding the point I'm trying to communicate and the number of words I can memorize of what my brain produced so I can type it out. The more I remember my original point, the easier it is to continue what I've written, but the less words I write with each iteration. The longer of a phrase I memorize before transcribing, the more words I can get down, but the more I have to reinvent the original point after I'm done transcribing and the more stilted the resulting sentence becomes. I guess the reason why these are called the Derails is that as I'm typing my thoughts slowly derail from what they were initially focused on, meaning I have to put effort into rerailing them. This is a necessary strategy to communicate while experiencing partial short-term memory suppression.

## The Handoffs
This is somewhat related to The Derails. Suppose I'm having a conversation with someone about some music being played and I initially imagine a sentence like "I prefer that we listen to something else." Because of the partial short-term memory suppression, by the time I say "we" I've forgotten every word past "listen". Recognizing what I've said thus far, I consider what music I'd want to listen to and realize I want to listen to some Juno Reactor. So I then finish the sentence saying "listen to Juno Reactor." This is a handoff, where I took something which was initially a worse thing to communicate and was able to convert it into a better thing to communicate. In this case I turned a non-specific recommendation into a specific recommendation, but I also remember cases of turning an incorrect or Judged Dumb statement into a correct or Judged Smart statement.

There is an important caveat with the Handoffs, which is that because of the partial short-term memory suppression which forces me to figure out how to finish the sentence, I don't actually have strong memories of things I was going to say initially. It's possible that I simply rediscover what I was going to say initially. That being said, I notice a Handoff by noticing feeling that my continuation of the sentence was a novel idea I had not invented before. Of course my memory is not great when it comes to these things over multiple occasions unless they're impactful or written down, but I trust that if I feel like I didn't just have a thought then I actually didn't just have the thought, because the feeling of "I've thought this before" is what allows me to notice Cycles.
